[docs] MCP-UI Blog Post (#4578)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-09-08-turn-any-mcp-server-mcp-ui-compatible/index.mdx

---

> title: "How to Make Any MCP Server MCP-UI Compatible"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How to Make An MCP Server MCP-UI Compatible"
```

description: "How I made Cloudinary and Filesystem MCP servers MCP-UI compatible with just a few lines of code."
authors: 
    - ebony
---

> ![blog banner](mcp-ui.png)

Author: i think it just took a minute to load, I'm [seeing it now](https://block.github.io/goose/pr-preview/pr-4578/blog)

> [MCP-UI](https://mcpui.dev/guide/introduction) isn’t fully rolled out yet, but to me that’s what makes it so fun to play with. We’re at this point where the spec is still taking shape, clients are only partially supporting it, and yet… you can already do a lot.

Reviewer 2: wonder if something like this hooks the reader in more..and positions MCP UI a little better..rather than being like this isnt something that is ready yet. 

```suggestion
[MCP-UI](https://mcpui.dev/guide/introduction)is in its infancy, and there's something addictive about being this early to the party. We're at this fascinating point where both the spec and client implementations are actively developing, and I find it thrilling to build alongside that evolution
```

Author: i like that, thanks rizel

    Your browser does not support the video tag.
  </video>
</div>

## The Pattern

Here’s the cool part, the steps are basically the same for any MCP server.

### **1. Install the SDK**

```bash
npm install @mcp-ui/server
```

### **2. Import it**

```ts
import { createUIResource } from "@mcp-ui/server";
```

### **3. Build your HTML**

For my Cloudinary server update, I used `Direct HTML → iframe`. I wrote a function that returns an HTML string that includes upload previews and action buttons.  

MCP-UI takes that HTML and renders it inside an iframe using `srcdoc`.  
It’s simple, totally self-contained, fast to iterate, and I get full control over how it looks.  

💡 However, other modes exist:  

- **External URL** – iframe a hosted page:  
  `content: { type: "externalUrl", iframeUrl }`

- **Remote DOM** – send a script that builds UI directly in the host’s DOM:  
  `content: { type: "remoteDom", script, framework }`

But for my use case, **Direct HTML was the perfect fit.**

### **4. Return both**

In your tool handler, I recommend returning both the original response and the `createUIResource`.

That’s it. Regardless the server the main steps remain the same.

> > ⚠️ **Heads up**: Right now the MCP-UI SDK is only available in **TypeScript** and **Ruby**.

Reviewer: should maybe make this a warning admonition instead of a blockquote

          ${isVideo ? `<video controls><source src="${result.secure_url}" /></video>` : ''}
          <div class="actions">
            <a href="${result.secure_url}" target="_blank" class="btn btn-primary">🔗 View</a>
            <button class="btn btn-success" onclick="navigator.clipboard.writeText('${result.secure_url}')">📋 Copy URL</button>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <script>
    // highlight-start
        const resizeObserver = new ResizeObserver((entries) => {
          entries.forEach((entry) => {
            window.parent.postMessage({
              type: "ui-size-change",
              payload: { height: entry.contentRect.height },
            }, "*");
          });
        });
        resizeObserver.observe(document.documentElement);
    //highlight-end
      </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    `;
}
```

</details>

💡 **Callout: Resize your UI**  
Notice the `ResizeObserver` at the bottom of the HTML.  
That little snippet is what keeps the iframe height in sync with your content so if your UI grows or shrinks, the window resizes automatically. Without it, your UI might look cut off and difficult to view.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

```

## Step 4: Look How Small the Diff Is

This is the part that blew my mind, making a tool UI-compatible is just a tiny code change.

Here’s the old version:

```ts
return {
    content: [
        {
            type: "text",
            text: JSON.stringify(response, null, 2)
        }
    ]
};
```

And here’s the new version with MCP-UI support:

```ts
return {
    content: [
        {
            type: "text",
            text: `🎉 Upload successful!\n\n${JSON.stringify(response, null, 2)}`
        },
        createUIResource({
            uri: `ui://cloudinary-upload/${result.public_id}`,
            content: { type: 'rawHtml', htmlString: this.createUploadResultUI(result) },
            encoding: 'text'
        })
    ]
};
```

That’s it. One extra resource, and suddenly Goose renders a full UI.

## Filesystem: Same Pattern

To prove this wasn’t a one-off, I also made the Filesystem MCP server UI-compatible.

> **Before:** Text output (what Goose shows by default)

![before MCP-UI](filesystemBefore.png)

> > **After:** UI output (interactive explorer with MCP-UI)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**After:** UI output (interactive explorer with MCP-UI)
```

![With MCP-UI](filesystemAfter.png)

And here’s the only diff you need:

```ts
return {
    content: [
        { type: "text", text: `📂 Files in ${directoryPath}:\n\n${textResponse}` },
        createUIResource({
            uri: `ui://filesystem/explorer/${encodeURIComponent(directoryPath)}`,
            content: { type: "rawHtml", htmlString: htmlContent },
            encoding: "text",
        })
    ]
};
```

## Ahead of the Curve

> I’ve now made two open source MCP servers UI-compatible, before MCP-UI is even fully rolled out. That’s crazy to me.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I’ve now made two MCP servers UI-compatible, before MCP-UI is even fully rolled out. That’s crazy to me.
```

> And if you zoom out, you’ll see other people pushing here too. Goose and Postman already support rendering and partial UI actions, today when I click a button in goose I get a toast or a message. Nothing fancy yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And if you zoom out, you’ll see other people pushing here too. Goose and Postman already support rendering and partial UI actions such as rendering.
```

> But the fact that rendering works means we can start perfecting these UI experiences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And the fact that rendering works means we can start perfecting these UI experiences.
```

Kent C. Dodds makes MCP servers that also support interaction in goose. I dont think we're limited to rendering only. Can you double check?

Author: let me double check with Andrew

That’s what excites me, we’re not waiting around. We’re experimenting in the open, and shaping what the future will feel like.

---

## Try It Yourself

Wanna see it in action? 

Download [Goose](/docs/quickstart#install-goose), give an MCP server a UI facelift of your own, and see the magic for yourself. Boring text prompts will never hit the same again.

*Got questions?* Explore our [docs](/docs/category/guides), browse the [blog](/blog), or join the conversation in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/block-opensource) and [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/block/goose/discussions). We’d love to have you.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="How to Make Any MCP Server MCP-UI Compatible" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="article" />
  <meta property="og:url" content="https://block.github.io/goose/blog/2025/09/08/turn-any-mcp-server-mcp-ui-compatible" />

>   <meta property="og:description" content="How I made Cloudinary and Filesystem MCP servers MCP-UI compatible with just a few lines of code." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta property="og:description" content="How I made existing MCP servers MCP-UI compatible with just a few lines of code." />
```

  <meta property="og:image" content="https://block.github.io/goose/assets/images/mcp-ui-0a7ec9ab9d9b8b0f84e1372e956cfbde.png" />
  <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
  <meta property="twitter:domain" content="block.github.io/goose" />

>   <meta name="twitter:title" content="How to Make Any MCP Server MCP-UI Compatible" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta name="twitter:title" content="How to Make An MCP Server MCP-UI Compatible" />
```

>   <meta name="twitter:description" content="How I made Cloudinary and Filesystem MCP servers MCP-UI compatible with just a few lines of code." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta name="twitter:description" content="How I made existing MCP servers MCP-UI compatible with just a few lines of code." />
```
